.TH db2-auth-udfs "8" "June 2004" "db2-auth-udfs 1.1" "DB2 User Defined Functions"
.SH NAME
db2-auth-udfs \- DB2 UDFs for encrypting passwords
.SH SYNOPSIS
>>-MD5--(--expression--)---------------------------------------><
.PP
>>-APR_MD5--(--expression--)-----------------------------------><
.PP
>>-APR_CRYPT--(--expression--)---------------------------------><
.PP
>>-APR_SHA1--(--expression--)----------------------------------><
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions can be used to encrypt passwords within DB2.
.PP
.TP
\fBmd5( '\fR\fIcleartext\fR\fB' )\fR
MD5 hash. The md5 function is compatible to the PHP md5 function.
.IP
The argument can be a character string that is either a CHAR or VARCHAR not exceeding 120 bytes.
.IP
The result of the function is VARCHAR(32). The result can be null; if the argument is null, the result is the null value.
.TP
\fBapr_md5( '\fR\fIcleartext\fR\fB' )\fR
Seeded MD5 hash. The apr_md5 function is compatible to the Apache function that is used in the htpasswd utility.
.IP
The argument can be a character string that is either a CHAR or VARCHAR not exceeding 120 bytes.
.IP
The result of the function is VARCHAR(37). The result can be null; if the argument is null, the result is the null value.
.TP
\fBapr_crypt( '\fR\fIcleartext\fR\fB' )\fR
Unix crypt. The apr_crypt is compatible to the Apache function that is used in the htpasswd utility.
.IP
The argument can be a character string that is either a CHAR or VARCHAR not exceeding 120 bytes.
.IP
The result of the function is VARCHAR(13). The result can be null; if the argument is null, the result is the null value.
.TP
\fBapr_sha1( '\fR\fIcleartext\fR\fB' )\fR
SHA1 algorithm. Not used in mod_auth_ibmdb2. The apr_sha1 is compatible to the Apache function that is used in the htpasswd utility.
.IP
The argument can be a character string that is either a CHAR or VARCHAR not exceeding 120 bytes.
.IP
The result of the function is VARCHAR(33). The result can be null; if the argument is null, the result is the null value.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBmd5 (1)\fR
.br
Inserting the user \fItest\fR and the md5 hash of the clear text \fItestpwd\fR to the table \fIusers\fR.
.PP
.nf
INSERT INTO USERS (username, password) 
  VALUES ('test', md5('testpwd'))
.fi
.PP
\fBmd5 (2)\fR
.br
.nf
SELECT md5( 'testpwd' ) FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1

1
--------------------------------
342df5b036b2f28184536820af6d1caf

  1 record(s) selected.
.fi
.PP
\fBapr_md5 (1)\fR
.br
Inserting the user \fItest\fR and the seeded md5 hash of the clear text 
.br
\fItestpwd\fR to the table \fIusers\fR.
.PP
.nf
INSERT INTO USERS (username, password) 
  VALUES ('test', apr_md5('testpwd'))
.fi
.PP
\fBapr_md5 (2)\fR
.br
.nf
SELECT apr_md5( 'testpwd' ) FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1

1                                    
-------------------------------------
$apr1$HsTNH...$bmlPUSoPOF/Qhznl.sAq6/

  1 record(s) selected.
.fi
.PP
\fBapr_crypt (1)\fR
.br
Inserting the user \fItest\fR and the crypted clear text \fItestpwd\fR to the table \fIusers\fR.
.PP
.nf
INSERT INTO USERS (username, password) 
  VALUES ('test', apr_crypt('testpwd'))
.fi
.PP
\fBapr_crypt (2)\fR
.br
.nf
SELECT apr_crypt( 'testpwd' ) FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1

1            
-------------
cqs7uOvz8KBlk

  1 record(s) selected.
.fi
.PP
\fBapr_sha1 (1)\fR
.br
Inserting the user \fItest\fR and the sha1 crypted clear text \fItestpwd\fR to the table \fIusers\fR.
.PP
.nf
INSERT INTO USERS (username, password) 
  VALUES ('test', apr_sha1('testpwd'))
.fi
.PP
\fBapr_sha1 (2)\fR
.br
.nf
SELECT apr_sha1( 'testpwd' ) FROM SYSIBM.SYSDUMMY1

1                                
---------------------------------
{SHA}mO8HWOaqxvmp4Rl1SMgZC3LJWB0=

  1 record(s) selected.
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Helmut K. C. Tessarek.
.SH "BUGS"
Hopefully none :-) But if you find one, please report it at:
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=103064&atid=633717
.SH "WEB SITE"
http://mod-auth-ibmdb2.sourceforge.net/
