.TH mod_authnz_ibmdb2 "8" "June 2012" "mod_authnz_ibmdb2" "Apache module"
.SH NAME
mod_authnz_ibmdb2 \- Apache authentication module for DB2
.SH DESCRIPTION
mod_authnz_ibmdb2 is an Apache authentication module using IBM DB2 as the backend database for storing user and group information.
.PP
The module is designed for Apache 2.2 and later. It supports several encryption methods. 
.SH "CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES"
These directives are used to control the behaviour of the authentication process.
.PP
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2Database\fR \fIdatabase\fR
database name
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2Hostname\fR \fIhostname\fR
database server hostname (for uncataloged databases)
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2Portnumber\fR \fIport number\fR
database instance port
.br
default value: \fB50000\fR
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2User\fR \fIusername\fR
user for connecting to the DB2 database
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2Password\fR \fIpassword\fR
password for connecting to the DB2 database
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2UserTable\fR \fIusertable\fR
name of the user table. If not fully qualified, the user that
was used to connect to the database is used as the schema name.
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2GroupTable\fR \fIgrouptable\fR
name of the group table. If not fully qualified, the user that
was used to connect to the database is used as the schema name.
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2NameField\fR \fInamefield\fR
name of the username column within the user and group table
.br
default value: \fBusername\fR
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2GroupField\fR \fIgroupfield\fR
name of the groupname column within the group table
.br
default value: \fBgroupname\fR
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2PasswordField\fR \fIpasswordfield\fR
name of the password column within the user table
.br
.br
default value: \fBpassword\fR
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2CryptedPasswords\fR \fI[On|Off]\fR
If AuthIBMDB2CryptedPasswords is "On", then the passwords are stored encrypted. You do not have to specify what kind of encryption was used. Valid encryption methods are: normal md5 hash (32 chars as in php), seeded md5 value (as generated with Apache's htpasswd utility or as in /etc/shadow), crypt. If "Off", plaintext passwords are used.
.br
default value: \fBOn\fR
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2KeepAlive\fR \fI[On|Off]\fR
If AuthIBMDB2KeepAlive is "On", then the server instance will keep the IBMDB2 server connection open.
.br
default value: \fBOn\fR
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2Authoritative\fR \fI[On|Off]\fR
If AuthIBMDB2Authoritative is "Off", then iff the user is not found in the database, let other auth modules try to find the user.
.br
default value: \fBOn\fR
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2NoPasswd\fR \fI[On|Off]\fR
If AuthIBMDB2NoPasswd is "On", then any password the user enters will be accepted as long as the user exists in the database.
.br
default value: \fBOff\fR
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2UserCondition\fR \fIuser_condition\fR
Can be used to restrict queries made against the user table. The value should be a string that you want to be added to the end of the where-clause when querying the table. For example, if your user table has an "active" field and you only want users to be able to login if that field is 1, you could use a directive like this: AuthIBMDB2UserCondition active=1
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2GroupCondition\fR \fIgroup_condition\fR
Can be used to restrict queries made against the group table. The value should be a string that you want to be added to the end of the where-clause when querying the table. For example, if your group table has an "active" field and you only want users to be able to login if that field is 1, you could use a directive like this: AuthIBMDB2GroupCondition active=1
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2UserProc\fR \fIuser_procedure_name\fR
If set, the named stored procedure is responsible for returning the password of the user in question to the module. It must return exact one value - the password. If AuthIBMDB2NoPasswd is "On", then the username has to be returned instead of the password. The stored procedure must have the following parameter format:
.br

CREATE PROCEDURE user_procedure_name ( IN VARCHAR, OUT VARCHAR )
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2GroupProc\fR \fIgroup_procedure_name\fR
If set, the named stored procedure is responsible for returning the groups the user in question belongs to. It must return an open cursor to the resultset. The stored procedure must have the following parameter format:
.br

CREATE PROCEDURE group_procedure_name ( IN VARCHAR )
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2Caching\fR \fI[On|Off]\fR
If AuthIBMDB2Caching is "On", the user credentials are cached in a file.
.br
default value: \fBOff\fR
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2GroupCaching\fR \fI[On|Off]\fR
If AuthIBMDB2GroupCaching is "On", the group information is cached in a file that is named like the file specified in AuthIBMDB2CacheFile but with the extension .grp
.br
default value: \fBOff\fR
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2CacheFile\fR \fIfilename\fR
defines the location and name of the cache file
.br
default value: \fB/tmp/auth_cred_cache\fR
.TP
\fBAuthIBMDB2CacheLifetime\fR \fIseconds\fR
sets the expiration timeout in seconds of the cached elements
.br
default value: \fB300\fR
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBExample 1:\fR
.br

Let's say you want to protect \fIhttp://yourserver/private\fR. The database where the users and groups are stored in is \fIauthdb\fR. You want to use the user \fIdb2user\fR and the password \fIdb2pwd\fR to connect to the database. The name of the usertable is \fIweb.users\fR and the name of the grouptable is \fIweb.groups\fR. The two tables look like this:
.PP
.nf
usertable:

USERNAME                       PASSWORD
------------------------------ --------------------------------

grouptable:

USERNAME                       GROUPNAME
------------------------------ --------------------------------
.fi
.PP
The passwords are stored encrypted and the database connection should not be closed after the request. mod_authnz_ibmdb2 should be the only authentication authority and a password is needed to be authenticated. The users that are in the group \fIadmin\fR should be allowed to access the protected area.
.br
With the above assumptions, your httpd.conf should look like this:
.PP
.nf
LoadModule    authnz_ibmdb2_module   modules/mod_authnz_ibmdb2.so

Alias         /private               "/data/private/"

<Directory "/data/private">
    AuthName                    "DB2 Authentication for private"
    AuthType                    Basic
    AuthBasicProvider           ibmdb2 

    AuthIBMDB2User              db2user
    AuthIBMDB2Password          db2pwd
    AuthIBMDB2Database          authdb
    AuthIBMDB2UserTable         web.users
    AuthIBMDB2NameField         username
    AuthIBMDB2PasswordField     password

    AuthIBMDB2CryptedPasswords  On
    AuthIBMDB2KeepAlive         On
    AuthIBMDB2Authoritative     On
    AuthIBMDB2NoPasswd          Off

    AuthIBMDB2GroupTable        web.groups
    AuthIBMDB2GroupField        groupname

    require                     group admin
    AllowOverride               None
</Directory>
.fi
.PP
You also could have ommitted the parameters 
.br
AuthIBMDB2NameField, AuthIBMDB2PasswordField, 
.br
AuthIBMDB2CryptedPasswords, AuthIBMDB2KeepAlive,
.br
AuthIBMDB2Authoritative, AuthIBMDB2NoPasswd
.br
AuthIBMDB2GroupField
.br
because the default values are used in the above example.
.br

\fBExample 2:\fR

In this example we use the same assumptions as in the first example, except that we want to use stored procedures. For our example we add an additional column to the group table:
.PP
.nf
grouptable:

USERNAME                       GROUPNAME                        ACTIVE
------------------------------ -------------------------------- --------
.fi
.PP
The two stored procedures have the following structure:
.PP
.nf
CREATE PROCEDURE db2user.user_sp
(IN v_username VARCHAR(128), OUT v_password VARCHAR(128))
LANGUAGE SQL
BEGIN
  SELECT password INTO v_password FROM web.users 
WHERE username = v_username;
END@

CREATE PROCEDURE db2user.group_sp
(IN v_username VARCHAR(128))
LANGUAGE SQL
DYNAMIC RESULT SETS 1
BEGIN
  DECLARE res CURSOR WITH RETURN FOR
  SELECT groupname FROM web.groups 
  WHERE username = v_username AND active = 1;

  OPEN res;
END@
.fi
.PP
The stored procedures return the password and the list of groups of the user passed to them. Furthermore we want the user and group information to be cached. The directives in the httpd.conf should then look like this:
.PP
.nf
<Directory "/data/private">
    AuthName                    "DB2 Authentication for private"
    AuthType                    Basic
    AuthBasicProvider           ibmdb2 

    AuthIBMDB2User              db2user
    AuthIBMDB2Password          db2pwd
    AuthIBMDB2Database          authdb
    AuthIBMDB2UserProc          user_sp
    AuthIBMDB2GroupProc         group_sp

    AuthIBMDB2Caching           On
    AuthIBMDB2GroupCaching      On

    require                     group admin
    AllowOverride               None
</Directory>
.fi
.SH FILES
httpd.conf, .htaccess
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Helmut K. C. Tessarek.
.SH "BUGS"
Hopefully none :-) But if you find one, please report it at:
.br
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=103064&atid=633717
.SH "WEB SITE"
http://mod-auth-ibmdb2.sourceforge.net
